website: release notes for `2025.6` (#14703)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/releases/2025/v2025.6.md

---
title: Release 2025.6
slug: "/releases/2025.6"
---

:::note
2025.6 has not been released yet! We're publishing these release notes as a preview of what's to come, and for our awesome beta testers trying out release candidates.

To try out the release candidate, replace your Docker image tag with the latest release candidate number, such as 2025.6.0-rc1. You can find the latest one in [the latest releases on GitHub](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/releases). If you don't find any, it means we haven't released one yet.
:::

> Authentik Security is happy to announce our 2025.6 release. Read on for details about the new features, any changes you need to be aware of, and then when you're ready to upgrade refer to our [Upgrade instructions](../install-config/upgrade) for Docker, Kubernetes, and AWS Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentik Security is happy to announce our 2025.6 release. Read on for details about the new features, any changes you need to be aware of, and then when you're ready to upgrade refer to our [Upgrade instructions](../install-config/upgrade) for Docker, Kubernetes, and AWS Cloud Formation.
```

---
title: Release 2025.6
slug: "/releases/2025.6"
---

## Highlights

> - **mTLS** :ak-enterprise The Mutual TLS stage enables authentik to use client certificates to enroll and authenticate users. These certificates can be local to the device or available via PIV Smart Cards, Yubikeys, etc. For environments where certificates are already rolled out, this can make authentication a lot more seamless.

Reviewer 2: I'd do ** mTLS stage** instead of just mTLS:

> - **Email verification compatibility with link scanners**: Improved compatibility with certain email providers or scanning software which would previously invalidate links sent by authentik.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Email verification compatibility with link scanners**: we have improved compatibility for environments with automated scanning software that inadvertently invalidated links sent by authentik.
```

- **LDAP source sync forward deletions**: This option will remove users created via LDAP sources when they are removed in the LDAP source.

## Breaking changes

- **Helm chart dependencies upgrades**:

>     - The PostgreSQL chart has been updated to version 16.7.4. The PostgreSQL image is no longer pinned in authentik's default values and has been upgraded from version 15 to 17. Follow [our PostgreSQL upgrade instructions](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/troubleshooting/postgres/upgrade_kubernetes) to update to the latest PostgreSQL version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The PostgreSQL chart has been updated to version 16.7.4. The PostgreSQL image is no longer pinned in authentik's default values and has been upgraded from version 15 to 17. Follow our [PostgreSQL upgrade instructions](/docs/troubleshooting/postgres/upgrade_kubernetes) to update to the latest PostgreSQL version.
```

Keeping "our" out of the href seems to make more sense. Also updated the link to be relative as it's more commonly used throughout or docs in that way

    - The Redis chart has been updated to version 21.1.6. There are no breaking changes and Redis has been upgraded from version 7 to 8.

- **Deprecated and frozen `:latest` container image tag after 2025.2**

    Using the `:latest` tag with container images is not recommended as it can lead to unintentional updates and potentially broken setups.

    The tag will not be removed, however it will also not be updated past 2025.2.

    We strongly recommended the use of a specific version tag for authentik instances' container images, such as `:2025.4`.

> - **CSS**: We’ve made some improvements to our theming system. If your authentik instance uses custom CSS, you may need to review flow and user interfaces for any visual changes.

Reviewer 2: There was that bug where the migration didn't occur. I think it was fixed with v2025.4.1? I'd add a note as a reminder that the migration is fixed and the docker/k8s volume can safely be removed this time.

## New features and improvements

> - **mTLS**: The Mutual TLS stage enables authentik to use client certificates to enroll and authenticate users. These certificates can be local to the device or available via PIV Smart Cards, Yubikeys, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **mTLS**: The Mutual TLS stage enables authentik to use client certificates to enroll and authenticate users. These certificates can be local to the device or available via PIV Smart Cards, Yubikeys, etc. For environments where certificates are already rolled out, this can make authentication a lot more seamless.
```

- **Email verification compatibility with link scanners**: Improved compatibility with certain email providers or scanning software which would previously invalidate links sent by authentik.

> - **LDAP source sync forward deletions**: This option will remove users created via LDAP sources when they are removed in the LDAP source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **LDAP source sync forward deletions**: With this option, when users that were created in authentik via LDAP sources are removed in the LDAP source they are also removed from authentik.
```

> - **Provider sync performance**: Outgoing syncs might be faster due to parallel scheduling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Provider sync performance**: We have implemented parallel scheduling for outgoing syncs to provide faster synchronization.
```

- **Branding**: Custom branding should now be more consistent on initial load, without flickering.

> - **Dual selector pagination**: Dual selector now works with pagination and search at the same time!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dual selector pagination**: Dual selector components now work with pagination and search at the same time!
```

    The tag will not be removed, however it will also not be updated past 2025.2.

    We strongly recommended the use of a specific version tag for authentik instances' container images, such as `:2025.6`.

- **CSS**: We’ve made some improvements to our theming system. If your authentik instance uses custom CSS, you may need to review flow and user interfaces for any visual changes.

## New features and improvements

- **mTLS stage**: :ak-enterprise The Mutual TLS stage enables authentik to use client certificates to enroll and authenticate users. These certificates can be local to the device or available via PIV Smart Cards, Yubikeys, etc. For environments where certificates are already rolled out, this can make authentication a lot more seamless. Refer to our [technical documentation](../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/mtls/) for more information.
- **Email verification compatibility with link scanners**: We have improved compatibility for environments with automated scanning software that inadvertently invalidated one-time links sent by authentik.

> - **LDAP source sync forward deletions**: With this option, when users that were created in authentik via LDAP sources are removed in the LDAP source they are also removed from authentik. For more information refer to our [LDAP source documentation](../users-sources/sources/protocols/ldap/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **LDAP source sync forward deletions**: With this option enabled, users who were created in authentik via LDAP sources will also be removed from authentik if they are deleted from the LDAP source. For additional details, please refer to our [LDAP source documentation](../users-sources/sources/protocols/ldap/).
```

Reviewer 2: Just a little wording tweak, feels more clear this way IMO

- **Provider sync performance**: We have implemented parallel scheduling for outgoing syncs to provide faster synchronization.
- **Branding**: Custom branding should now be more consistent on initial load, without flickering.

## New integration guides

An integration is how authentik connects to third-party applications, directories, and other identity providers. The following integration guides were recently added.

- [Pangolin](../../../integrations/services/pangolin/)
- [Stripe](../../../integrations/services/stripe/)

> - [Filewise](../../../integrations/services/filerise/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [FileRise](../../../integrations/services/filerise/)
```

- [Push Security](../../../integrations/services/push-security/)
- [Atlassian Cloud (Jira, Confluence, etc)](../../../integrations/services/atlassian/)
- [Coder](../../../integrations/services/coder/)
- [YouTrack](../../../integrations/services/youtrack/)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Komodo](../../../integrations/services/komodo/)

```

---
title: Release 2025.6
slug: "/releases/2025.6"
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Authentik Security is happy to announce our 2025.6 release. Read on for details about the new features, any changes you need to be aware of, and then when you're ready to upgrade refer to our [Upgrade instructions](../../install-config/upgrade) for Docker, Kubernetes, and AWS Cloud.
```

## Highlights

- **mTLS Stage**: :ak-enterprise The Mutual TLS stage provides support for mTLS, a standard protocol that uses certificates for mutual authentication between a client and a server.

- **Email verification compatibility with link scanners**: We have improved compatibility for environments with automated scanning software that inadvertently invalidated one-time links sent by authentik.

- **LDAP source sync forward deletions**: This option synchronizes the deletion of users (those created by LDAP sources) in authentik when they are removed in the LDAP source.

## Breaking changes

- **Helm chart dependencies upgrades**:

    - The PostgreSQL chart has been updated to version 16.7.4. The PostgreSQL image is no longer pinned in authentik's default values and has been upgraded from version 15 to 17. Follow our [PostgreSQL upgrade instructions](../../troubleshooting/postgres/upgrade_kubernetes.md) to update to the latest PostgreSQL version.
    - The Redis chart has been updated to version 21.1.6. There are no breaking changes and Redis has been upgraded from version 7 to 8.

- **Deprecated and frozen `:latest` container image tag after 2025.2**

>     Using the `:latest` tag with container images is not recommended as it can lead to unintentional updates and potentially broken setups.

Reviewer: I bvote that lines 23 - 27 are combined into one paragraph. No need to string 'em along like that.

- [YouTrack](../../../integrations/services/youtrack/)
- [Komodo](../../../integrations/services/komodo/)

## Upgrading

This release does not introduce any new requirements. You can follow the upgrade instructions below; for more detailed information about upgrading authentik, refer to our [Upgrade documentation](../../install-config/upgrade.mdx).

:::warning
When you upgrade, be aware that the version of the authentik instance and of any outposts must be the same. We recommended that you always upgrade any outposts at the same time you upgrade your authentik instance.
:::

### Docker Compose

To upgrade, download the new docker-compose file and update the Docker stack with the new version, using these commands:

```shell
wget -O docker-compose.yml https://goauthentik.io/version/2025.6/docker-compose.yml
docker compose up -d
```

The `-O` flag retains the downloaded file's name, overwriting any existing local file with the same name.

### Kubernetes

Upgrade the Helm Chart to the new version, using the following commands:

```shell
helm repo update
helm upgrade authentik authentik/authentik -f values.yaml --version ^2025.6
```

## Minor changes/fixes

> TODO

Reviewer: Is this new? 

At any rate, since I got so much pushback about adding an entry for "Improved RAC docs" up under New Feautres and improvements, I guess we can add it here.
